 There are seven basis of programming.
 Primitive types, Statements, Functions, Arrays, Strings, Input/Output, and finally Data Abstraction.
 
 These basis are building blocks that are used together to develop programs aimed at solving specific problems viz programming.
 These seven basis are used together to build a program. Simpler programs only use some of the seven basis, 
 while more robust programs use more of the seven basis. The individual components are as follows:
 
 Primitive Data Types - These are the most basic data types that are used in Java Programming. 
 There are eight basic primitive Data types namely, int, short, long, float, double, byte, char, and boolean.
 These data types are fixed and predefined, therefore Java interprets them in a specific way. 
 They individually store different types of data.
 There are also non-primitive data types in Java and these can be coined by the programmer to represent values, or to call methods/functions.
 
 Statements - Statements in Java specify actions to be taken in a Java program. 
 They can be expressions, declarations, control-flow statements, used to call methods, or to create objects of a class.
 
 Functions - These are also known as methods and they are made up of primitive types and statements. 
 Functions are blocks of code that are aimed at solving specific aspects of a problem in programming.
 A simple program may comprise only of one function, while a combination of functions make up a more complicated program.
 
 Arrays - These are used to store multiple values in a single type variable. 
 In some programs, there is a need to store multiple values or information in order to reuse the data in a subsequent step.
 Such information is store in Arrays. The information in arrays can be manipulated as well.
 
 Strings - String is actually a class in Java and whenever we use it in programming, we actually are using an object of this class
  to store characters surrounded by double quotes. Strings are also used in functions and other aspects of the 7 basis of programming.
  
 Input/Output - Inputs are ways to enter/collect data from the user, in order to use it in the program.
 They could be gotten from actual devices like the Keyboard of a computer or they could be files that are invoked in the program.
 Outputs are the results the program provides after completing its process. It can be printed on to actual devices like the computer screen.
 It can also be saved in a file for further review or use in a different part of the program.
 
 Data Abstraction - This is when certain portions of a program are kept hidden from the user by way of hiding some of the code in an abstract class or interface.
 Only essential information is made visible to the user, sometimes because the details of the process are not necessary for the user to interact with. 
 Data Abstraction is also used to protect fundamental parts of a program from being altered inadvertently by multiple users.
 
 All of these basics are essential to understand in order to successfully understand what programming entails and how to maximize their functions to develop solutions to complex, computer-solvable problems.